fjord-notice (#739)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/builders/node-operators/network-upgrades.mdx

### [Fjord](https://specs.optimism.io/protocol/superchain-upgrades.html#fjord)

> Fjord upgrade includes RIP-7212, Brotli channel compression, FastLZ, and gas cost changes.

Reviewer: FastLZ _is_ the gas pricing change, so it could be misleading to list it separately. Instead, this sentence should mention that some protocol parameters got increased. Something like
```suggestion
The Fjord upgrade includes the RIP-7212 precompile, FastLZ gas pricing, Brotli channel compression, and several protocol parameter changes.
```

> *   [RIP-7212: Precompile for secp256r1](https://specs.optimism.io/protocol/precompiles.html#P256VERIFY)
> *   [Brotli as a channel compression option](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/exec-engine.html#fees)
> *   [FastLZ L1 fee cost calculation](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/exec-engine.html#fees)
> *   [Upgraded GasPriceOracle to compute FastLZ](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/derivation.html#gaspriceoracle-deployment)
> *   [Max sequencer drift becomes constant](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/derivation.html#constant-maximum-sequencer-drift)
> *   [Fjord chain derivation changes](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/derivation.html#increasing-max_rlp_bytes_per_channel-and-max_channel_bank_size)
> *   [Fjord hardfork activation block](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/derivation.html#network-upgrade-automation-transactions)
> *   [L1 gas cost changes](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/predeploys.html#l1-gas-usage-estimation)

Reviewer: We should group them, currently related changes are separated
```suggestion
*   [RIP-7212: Precompile for secp256r1](https://specs.optimism.io/protocol/precompiles.html#P256VERIFY)
*   [Brotli channel compression](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/exec-engine.html#fees)
*   FastLZ gas pricing
    *   [FastLZ L1 fee cost calculation](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/exec-engine.html#fees)
    *   [Upgraded GasPriceOracle to compute FastLZ](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/derivation.html#gaspriceoracle-deployment)
    *   [L1 gas cost changes](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/predeploys.html#l1-gas-usage-estimation)
* Protocol parameter changes
    *   [Max sequencer drift becomes constant](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/derivation.html#constant-maximum-sequencer-drift)
    *   [Channel constant increases](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/derivation.html#increasing-max_rlp_bytes_per_channel-and-max_channel_bank_size)
*   [Fjord hardfork activation block](https://specs.optimism.io/fjord/derivation.html#network-upgrade-automation-transactions)
```
